Banned and Restricted Announcement – June 29, 2026 Skip to main content Products Coming Soon Coming Soon The Hobbit™ Reality Fracture Star Trek Nauctis: The Sunken Realm Kamigawa: Titanbreach Zhalfir Available Now Available Now Marvel Super Heroes Secrets of Strixhaven Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Lorwyn Eclipsed Avatar: The Last Airbender Marvel’s Spider-Man Secret Lair Drop Series Latest Products Card Set Archive MTG Arena Download Getting Started Drop Rates Alchemy Draft MTG Arena News Play Play Events Play Events Prerelease Magic Academy Standard Showdown Commander Box League Commander Party Store Championship Friday Night Magic MagicCon Pro Tour All Events Formats Formats Commander Standard Modern Pioneer Booster Draft Pick-Two Draft Sealed Deck All Formats Platforms Platforms Store Locator MTG Arena Magic Online SpellTable Wizards Accounts Support Support Player Support Store Support Club Support Military Support Learn Resources Resources Where to Start How to Play Product Guide Keyword Glossary Banned & Restricted List Card Database Companion App SHOP News Read Read Latest News Announcements Behind The Scenes Making Magic MTG Arena News Card Previews Competitive Watch Watch Drive To Work Podcast WeeklyMTG Magic Story Podcast Story Story Latest Stories Story Archive Planes and Planeswalkers More More Wallpapers Locator Card Database Accounts News / Announcements Banned and Restricted Announcement – June 29, 2026 Announcements Jun 29, 2026 Carmen Klomparens Jadine Klomparens Arya Karamchandani Eric Engelhard Gavin Verhey Dave Finseth Standard No changes Pioneer No changes Modern No changes Legacy Candelabra of Tawnos is banned. Vintage No changes Pauper Seeker of Skybreak is banned. Alchemy No changes Historic No changes Timeless No changes Brawl Force of Will is banned. Subtlety is banned. Wash Away is banned. Ugin's Labyrinth is banned. Time Warp is banned. Temporal Manipulation is banned. Competitive Brawl No changes Changes effective as of June 29, 2026. View the list of all banned and restricted cards by format . Next announcement: August 10, 2026 Howdy, gamers! My name is Carmen Klomparens, and I'm a senior game designer on Magic 's Play Design team. We're just over halfway through 2026, so it's fitting that this is our fourth of seven banned and restricted announcements for the year. After several changes in our previous announcement, most of our formats look to be in a state of organic change that we like to see. We'll share more specific thoughts for each format below. As usual, we'll be on WeeklyMTG on twitch.tv/magic tomorrow, June 30, at 10 a.m. PT to talk through these changes and answer questions. As a reminder, the next banned and restricted announcement will be on August 10. Without further ado, let's dive into the thing we're all here to talk about: Magic ! Standard Written by Jadine Klomparens No changes Standard right now is a format where many different decks can win on any given weekend. When we spoke last during the banned and restricted announcement on May 18, 2026 , the narrative of the format was all about the battle between Izzet Prowess (and other Izzet variants) and green Badgermole Cub decks. Those were (and are) at the top of the metagame, and the concern was that their stifling effect on the rest of the metagame would grow and we'd see the Standard metagame becomes less diverse over time. Instead, we've seen the opposite: Standard is now more diverse than it was at the time of Pro Tour Secrets of Strixhaven . The pressures exerted on the format by the twin pillars of Izzet Prowess and Badgermole Cub haven't changed, but decks that can exist within those parameters have been discovered, tuned, and have cemented their place within the metagame. Four-Color Control, Mardu Discard, Azorius Momo, and Dimir Excruciator are the biggest names here, having consistently respectable metagame shares and having each won a Regional Championship over the last few weeks. One of the largest developments in Standard over the last few weeks has been the solidification of Four-Color Control as a mainstay of the format. It was the second most played deck behind Izzet Prowess at high-level Standard tournaments in the last two weeks of May, as laid out by Frank Karsten here . This deck was made possible by the printing of Tablet of Discovery in Secrets of Strixhaven and did not gain significant traction in time for the Pro Tour but has been climbing in popularity recently. It's a great example of a new deck finding sustained success in this Standard format. 2 Mistrise Village 1 Thundering Falls 1 Three Steps Ahead 1 Thunder Magic 2 Shattered Sanctum 1 Abrade 3 Inevitable Defeat 1 Stormcarved Coast 2 Flashback 3 Consult the Star Charts 4 Great Hall of the Biblioplex 1 Floodfarm Verge 1 Get Lost 1 Hallowed Fountain 4 Jeskai Revelation 1 Sundown Pass 1 Mountain 2 No More Lies 2 Sear 1 Multiversal Passage 2 Day of Judgment 1 Firebending Lesson 3 Sacred Foundry 1 Meticulous Archive 4 Stock Up 1 Together as One 1 Plains 4 Tablet of Discovery 3 Steam Vents 1 Sunbillow Verge 2 Gloomlake Verge 1 Godless Shrine 1 Fire Magic 1 Disdainful Stroke 1 Return the Favor 2 High Noon 2 Strategic Betrayal 1 Wan Shi Tong, Librarian 1 Pest Control 1 Stoic Sphinx 1 Pyroclasm 2 Emeritus of Ideation 2 Flashfreeze 1 Day of Judgment Despite the strength and consistency of the top decks, this Standard metagame has continued to evolve with time. While Standard's deep card pool does allow for extremely polished top decks to emerge, it's encouraging to see that the format's deep card pool also provides players with the tools they need to combat those decks. Because players can successfully target the top of the metagame, we continue to see churn in the format as players attack the top decks. Over the last several months, Standard has often been a format that does not get fully solved quickly. There are enough potential strategies in Standard that exploring and iterating on them all is a monumental task that